# Learning Rust

This is my journey learning rust, and the projects that I have made along this journey

To Build Use:

        cargo run

in the directory that you want to compile.

Some of the project, like the minis, need a different
approach to compile them,

        rustc filename -o a.out

by default they compile as the file name, so i use the -o
flag to compile it to a.out, the default output for gcc.

# Details of Each

## Smaller

<details><summary>Login Details</summary>

[easy] challenge #1

create a program that will ask the users name, age,
and reddit username.
have it tell them the information back, in the format:

your name is (blank), you are (blank) years old, and your username is (blank)

for extra credit, have the program log this information in a file to be accessed later.
</details>


<details><summary>FMA Phisics Calculator</summary>
[easy] challenge #2

Hello, coders! An important part of programming is being able to apply your programs,
so your challenge for today is to create a calculator application that has use in your life.
It might be an interest calculator, or it might be
something that you can use in the classroom.
For example, if you were in physics class, you might want to make a F = M * A calc.

EXTRA CREDIT: make the calculator have multiple functions!
Not only should it be able to calculate F = M * A, but also A = F/M, and M = F/A!
</details>


<details><summary>Caesar Cipher</summary>

[2/11/2012] Challenge #3 [easy]

Welcome to cipher day!

write a program that can encrypt texts with an alphabetical caesar cipher.
This cipher can ignore numbers, symbols, and whitespace.

for extra credit, add a "decrypt" function to your program!
</details>


<details><summary>Password Generator</summary>
[2/12/2012] Challenge #4 [easy]

You're challenge for today is to create a random password generator!

For extra credit, allow the user to specify the amount of passwords to generate.

For even more extra credit, allow the user to specify the length
of the strings he wants to generate!
</details>


<details><summary>Password Protected</summary>
[2/12/2012] Challenge #5 [easy]

Your challenge for today is to create a program which is password protected,
and wont open unless the correct user and password is given.

For extra credit, have the user and password in a seperate .txt file.

for even more extra credit, break into your own program :)
</details>


<details><summary>Mini</summary>
        rustc {file to compile} -o a.out

For these, minis, I did not think that these deserve an
entire director for all of them.

I get the list from [Project Euler]
(https://projecteuler.net/archives).


<details><summary>1 - Multipals of 3 and 5</summary>

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are
multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of
these multiples is 23. Find the sum of all the multiples
of 3 or 5 below 1000.

</details>


<details><summary>2 - Even Fibonacci Numbers</summary>

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by
adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2,
the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose
values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the
even-valued terms.

</details>


<details><summary>3 - Largest prime factor</summary>

The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.
What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?

</details>


</details>


## Bigger
<details><summary>Number Line Print</summary>
This is a challenge I have formulated while my child was
learning his number lines.

I enscribed a quick note in my journel and seemed possible.

So the challenge is to get points up to four and be able to
graph them on a number line.

BONUS if you can do negatives

Extra BONUS if you can get variables through another
like >3, witch prints all that is greater, upto 10;
</details>


<details><summary>Line Renderer</summary>
Make a 2d line renderer, with the
user inputting two points and make a line in-between them

BONUS if you can do multiple lines,
with different colors for each.

EXTRA BONUS If you can make it scale procedurally, for
example normally if you had a number line it would look line

But that could not scale up reliably if, for example one of
your points was at 100, 100, it would fill the entire screen
and wrap.
</details>


# Resources

- [r/dailyprogrammer](https://www.reddit.com/r/dailyprogrammer/) 
 : Challenges to help learn
- [alexwanng/learn-rust-examples](https://github.com/alexwanng/learn-rust-examples) 
 : From The Book “Programming Rust”, by Jim Blandy and Jason Orendorff
- [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/)
- [rust official website](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn)
<!--- vim: tw=60
-->
